---
title: "NIST"
layout: post
categories:
 - cybersecurity
 - tech
---

#### NIST (National Institute of Standards & Technology)
- NIST is a non-regulatory agency and does not have the authority to enforce regulations or laws. 
- Provides guidance, recommendations, and best practices in cybersecurity.

----------------------------------
#### NIST & Cybersecurity Frameworks
- NIST Cybersecurity Framework
- NIST 800-37 Risk Management Framework
- NIST 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls
- NIST 800-61 Computer Security Incident Handling Guide 

---------------------------
#### NIST 800-37 Risk Management 
- Provides a framework for the risk management of information systems 
- RMF is used to figure out what level of risk a system owner is going to accept.
- A system can be a organization, piece of software, or even a single feature within an application

--------------------------
##### When to use RMF
- When one needs to protect sensitive information
- Ex. Financial information, personal information, anything confidential

##### 6 Step Process to Use RMF
1. Categorize information systems
2. Select security controls
3. Implement security controls
4. Assess security controls
5. Authorize information systems
6. Monitor security controls
------------------------
#### RMF Step 1: Categorize
- Categorize terms of the CIA Triad Requirements
- Ex. Application that is used to look at public information, the following categorization can be used:

**Confidentiality:** LOW (public information)
**Integrity:** MED (info needs to be accurate)
**Availability:** LOW (not mission critical)

- NIST 800-60 Can be used to categorize

#### Step 2: Select Controls
- Look at the NIST 800-53 Security & Privacy Controls 
- Chose controls that are appropriate for the system.
- Ex. Implement PCI DSS for system that processes credit card info.

#### Step 3: Implement Security Controls
- Implementation of controls can take a long time, require specialized skills, and be costly.
- Ex. May have to build controls into an application such as account lockout.
- Controls should not hinder functionality. 
- NIST 800-53

#### Step 4:  Assess Security Controls
- Security Audit (can be a 3rd party) will make sure controls are implemented to the specified level. 

#### Step 5: Authorize the System
- Authorizing Official (AO) will sign off and accept the remaining risk within the system.
- Ex. of AO: CISO, CIO, CTO, Program Manager, etc 

#### Step 6: Monitor the Controls/System
- Remediate new vulnerabilities discovered in the system.
- Respond to new threats to the system.
- AO must sign off on new changes to the system and make sure they do not increase risk. 
- Overall: Make sure the level of risk does not increase within the system.
------------------------
#### NIST 800-53: Security & Privacy Controls
- Set of security controls orgs can use to help their information systems
- This publication covers how to make sure passwords are strong, regular checks for vulnerabilities, and how to respond to security incidents 

##### Two Main Controls Families
- **Access Control (AC)**
- **Incident Response (IR)**

##### Low, Moderate, & High Controls

- **Low:** This control level is for systems that have minimal security requirements. These systems usually store low risk information.

- **Moderate:** This control level is for systems that store information that is a bit more sensitive such as employee records or customer information. Requires more comprehensive security controls.

- **High:** This control is for extremely sensitive information. This can include classified documents or medical records. Needs to have the most comprehensive security controls to protect the system from a wide range of threats. 

##### Main Control Families
- Access Control (AC)
- Audit and Accountability (AU)
- Configuration Management (CM)
- Incident Response (IR)
- Maintenance (MA)
- Media Protection (MP)
- Personnel Security (PS)
- Risk Assessment (RA)

#### When to Use NIST 800-53
- Compliance with Federal Regulations
- Design and Implementation of a New System
- Cybersecurity Risk Assessments
- Regular Security Audits
- Enhancing Cybersecurity Posture in General

---------------------------------

#### NIST SP 800-61 Computer Security Incident Handling Guide
- Outlines incident handling, an incident is any event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information systems.
- Ex. Stolen laptop, malware, data breach, account compromise, fire, flooding, etc.

##### Incident Response Lifecycle
- Preparation
- Detection & Analysis
- Containment, Eradication & Recovery
- Post-Incident Activity

#### Incident Phase 1: Preparation (Create Incident Response Plan)
- An IR plan is a set of procedures that guides an organization's response to a security incident.
- It should include procedures for incident detection, analysis, containment, eradication, recovery, an post-incident activity.
- It should include roles and responsibilities, communication channels, and methods for measuring the effectiveness of the plan.

##### Establish Communication Channels
- Internal Communication Channels
- External Communication Channels
- Emergency Notification Systems
- Media Outlets

##### Preparation (Continuous Improvement)
- Exercise and Testing
- Post-Incident Reviews
- Metrics and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
- Feedback and Surveys

#### Incident Phase 2: Detection & Analysis
- Finding Evidence of an Incident 
- Ensuring the Incident Actually Occurred
- Start the Communication Process

#### Incident Phase 3: Containment, Eradication, & Recovery
- Stopping the incident from getting worse (containment)
- Removing the source of the problem (eradication)
- Fixing the damage caused by the incident (recovery)
- Making sure the incident does not happen again

#### Incident Phase 4: Post-Incident Activity
- 1. Reviewing what happened during the incident 
- Documenting what was done to respond
- Identifying areas where improvements can be made
- Sharing information with others to help prevent similar incidents in the future
- Updating your incident response plan as well as other plans
- Reflect on lessons learned

---------------------------
#### NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF)
- Categorized checklist to reference to help secure organizations
- 5 main areas
1. Identify
2. Protect
3. Detect
4. Respond
5. Recover

##### Ways to Use the NIST CSF
1. Risk assessment
2. Policy development
3. Gap analysis
4. Incident response planning
5. Continuous improvement

------------------
#### CIS Controls
- Center for Internet Security (CIS) is a non-profit org that helps other orgs with security.
- Known for the 18 Critical Security Controls they developed and maintain.
